@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the Quagga Manual.
@c @value{COPYRIGHT_STR}
@c See file quagga.texi for copying conditions.
@node Babel
@chapter Babel

Babel is an interior gateway protocol that is suitable both for wired
networks and for wireless mesh networks.  Babel has been described as
``RIP on speed'' --- it is based on the same principles as RIP, but
includes a number of refinements that make it react much faster to
topology changes without ever counting to infinity, and allow it to
perform reliable link quality estimation on wireless links.  Babel is
a double-stack routing protocol, meaning that a single Babel instance
is able to perform routing for both IPv4 and IPv6.

Quagga implements Babel as described in RFC6126.

@menu
* Configuring babeld::          
* Babel authentication::        
* Babel configuration::         
* Babel redistribution::        
* Show Babel information::      
* Babel debugging commands::    
@end menu

@node Configuring babeld, Babel authentication, Babel, Babel
@section Configuring babeld

The @command{babeld} daemon can be invoked with any of the common
options (@pxref{Common Invocation Options}).

The @command{zebra} daemon must be running before @command{babeld} is
invoked. Also, if @command{zebra} is restarted then @command{babeld}
must be too.

Configuration of @command{babeld} is done in its configuration file
@file{babeld.conf}.

@node Babel authentication, Babel configuration, Configuring babeld, Babel
@section Babel authentication
Quagga babeld implements protocol packet authentication mechanism as defined in
draft-ovsienko-babel-hmac-authentication (work in progress). This mechanism is
implemented with the following set of parameters:
@itemize @bullet
@item
Supported hash algorithms: RIPEMD-160, SHA-256, SHA-384, SHA-512 and Whirlpool.
@item
MaxDigestsIn: fixed to 4 at compile-time.
@item
MaxDigestsOut: fixed to 4 at compile-time.
@item
RxAuthRequired: is specific to each interface and can be changed through CLI or
configuration file.
@item
ANM Table: not retained across speaker restarts, can be retrieved and reset (all
entries at once) in runtime.
@item
ANM Timeout: is specific to the whole protocol instance, has a default value of
300 and can be changed through CLI or configuration file.
@item
Ordering of items within each interface's list of CSAs: arbitrary as set by
operator.
@item
Ordering of items within each KeyChain list: fixed to the sort order of
LocalKeyID. LocalKeyID must be unique within each KeyChain list.
@item
Multiple link-local IPv6 addresses per an interface: not supported.
@item
TS/PC number updates method: configured for the whole protocol instance through
CLI or configuration file to one of two following methods. The default method
is based on monotonic UNIX time and provides a TS/PC number strictly increasing
across UNIX epoch. Another, optional, method stands for the TS/PC number
counting outgoing packets as long as babeld keeps running.
@end itemize

@node Babel configuration, Babel redistribution, Babel authentication, Babel
@section Babel configuration

@deffn Command {router babel} {}
@deffnx Command {no router babel} {}
Enable or disable Babel routing.
@end deffn

@deffn Command {babel resend-delay <20-655340>} {}
Specifies the time after which important messages are resent when
avoiding a black-hole.  The default is 2000@dmn{ms}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Babel Command} {network @var{ifname}} {}
@deffnx {Babel Command} {no network @var{ifname}} {}
Enable or disable Babel on the given interface.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {babel wired} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {babel wireless} {}
Specifies whether this interface is wireless, which disables a number
of optimisations that are only correct on wired interfaces.
Specifying @code{wireless} (the default) is always correct, but may
cause slower convergence and extra routing traffic.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {babel split-horizon}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {no babel split-horizon}
Specifies whether to perform split-horizon on the interface.
Specifying @code{no babel split-horizon} is always correct, while
@code{babel split-horizon} is an optimisation that should only be used
on symmetric and transitive (wired) networks.  The default is
@code{babel split-horizon} on wired interfaces, and @code{no babel
split-horizon} on wireless interfaces.  This flag is reset when the
wired/wireless status of an interface is changed.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {babel hello-interval <20-655340>}
Specifies the time in milliseconds between two scheduled hellos.  On
wired links, Babel notices a link failure within two hello intervals;
on wireless links, the link quality value is reestimated at every
hello interval.  The default is 4000@dmn{ms}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {babel update-interval <20-655340>}
Specifies the time in milliseconds between two scheduled updates.
Since Babel makes extensive use of triggered updates, this can be set
to fairly high values on links with little packet loss.  The default
is 20000@dmn{ms}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {babel rxcost <1-65534>}
Specifies the base receive cost for this interface.  For wireless
interfaces, it specifies the multiplier used for computing the ETX
reception cost (default 256); for wired interfaces, it specifies the
cost that will be advertised to neighbours.  This value is reset when
the wired/wireless attribute of the interface is changed.

Do not use this command unless you know what you are doing; in most
networks, acting directly on the cost using route maps is a better
technique.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {babel authentication mode @var{authmode} key-chain @var{keychain}} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {no babel authentication mode @var{authmode} key-chain @var{keychain}} {}
Manage (add or remove) configured security associations (CSAs) for the current
interface. There may be multiple CSAs configured for an interface.
@var{keychain} stands for a name of a standard key chain. @var{authmode} stands
for a HMAC algorithm based on one of the following hash functions of choice.
A HMAC algorithm uses a secret key and a compound TS/PC number to produce one
or more digests for each protocol packet.
@itemize @bullet
@item
@code{sha256/sha384/sha512}:
SHA-256, SHA-384 and SHA-512 hash functions respectively, which belong to SHA-2
family of hash functions and produce a digest 256-bit, 384-bit and 512-bit long
respectively.
@item
@code{rmd160}:
RIPEMD-160 hash function, which produces a digest 160-bit long.
@item
@code{whirlpool}:
Whirlpool hash function, which produces a digest 512-bit long.
@end itemize
All of the hash functions listed above are considered relatively strong at the
time of this writing and require Quagga to be built with gcrypt library.
@ref{The Configure script and its options}
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {no babel authentication} {}
Remove all configured security associations (CSAs) from the current interface.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {babel authentication rx-required} {}
Configure an authenticated (with CSAs) Babel interface so, that an incoming
packet must pass all usual authentication checks before being processed at Babel
protocol level. If the packet does not pass any of the normally required checks,
it is discarded. This setting is the default.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {no babel authentication rx-required} {}
Configure an authenticated (with CSAs) Babel interface so, that an incoming
packet is tried against usual authentication checks, but then anyway processed
at Babel protocol level regardless of checks results. This mode is mainly
purposed for debugging and migration cases. It effectively cancels packet
authentication, but keeps statistics and logging reflecting live results of
authentication checks.
@end deffn

@deffn {Babel Command} {babel resend-delay <20-655340>}
Specifies the time in milliseconds after which an ``important''
request or update will be resent.  The default is 2000@dmn{ms}.  You
probably don't want to tweak this value.
@end deffn

@deffn {Babel Command} {anm-timeout <5-4294967295>} {}
@deffnx {Babel Command} {no anm-timeout [<5-4294967295>]} {}
Specifies the time in seconds, for which a record about a formerly active
authentic Babel neighbor will be retained in ANM (authentic neighbor memory).
The default is 300@dmn{s}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Babel Command} {ts-base (zero|unixtime)} {}
@deffnx {Babel Command} {no ts-base [(zero|unixtime)]} {}
Controls setting of TS (Timestamp) variable of local routing process. TS is
put into a TS/PC TLV of every packet being authenticated to prevent replay
attacks.
@itemize @bullet
@item
@code{unixtime}:
Configures UNIX time as TS base: makes TS be greater or equal to the current
UNIX time, which allows for unique TS/PC pairs for the deployed lifetime of
a Babel router. This is the default mode in Quagga.
@item
@code{zero}
Configures 0 as TS base: TS starts at value 0 and increment each time the
Packet Counter wraps.
@end itemize
@end deffn

@node Babel redistribution, Show Babel information, Babel configuration, Babel
@section Babel redistribution

@deffn {Babel command} {redistribute @var{kind}}
@deffnx {Babel command} {no redistribute @var{kind}}
Specify which kind of routes should be redistributed into Babel.
@end deffn

@node Show Babel information, Babel debugging commands, Babel redistribution, Babel
@section Show Babel information

@deffn {Command} {show babel route} {}
@deffnx {Command} {show babel route A.B.C.D}
@deffnx {Command} {show babel route X:X::X:X}
@deffnx {Command} {show babel route A.B.C.D/M}
@deffnx {Command} {show babel route X:X::X:X/M}
@deffnx {Command} {show babel interface} {}
@deffnx {Command} {show babel neighbor} {}
@deffnx {Command} {show babel parameters} {}
These commands dump various parts of @command{babeld}'s internal state.
@end deffn

@deffn {Command} {show babel authentication stats} {}
@deffnx {Command} {show babel authentication stats interface} {}
@deffnx {Command} {show babel authentication stats interface @var{ifname}} {}
Display authentication statistics counters of the Babel protocol instance, of
every Babel-enabled interface or the specified Babel interface respectively.
@end deffn

@deffn {Command} {clear babel authentication stats} {}
@deffnx {Command} {clear babel authentication stats interface} {}
@deffnx {Command} {clear babel authentication stats interface @var{ifname}} {}
Reset authentication statistics counters of the Babel protocol instance, of
every Babel-enabled interface or the specified Babel interface respectively.
@end deffn

@deffn {Command} {show babel authentication memory} {}
@deffnx {Command} {clear babel authentication memory} {}
Babel packet authentication extension maintains an internal table known as
"authentic neighbors memory" (ANM), which is used to protect against packet
replay attacks. ANM retains TS/PC values of authentic Babel neighbors, both
current and formerly active, for "ANM timeout" period of time.

The commands display and reset ANM records. Resetting ANM records may be
necessary to avoid a "quarantine period" for restarted Babel neighbors
operating in "NVRAM-less wrap counter" TS mode.
@end deffn

@node Babel debugging commands,  , Show Babel information, Babel
@section Babel debugging commands

@deffn {Babel Command} {debug babel @var{kind}} {}
@deffnx {Babel Command} {no debug babel @var{kind}} {}
Enable or disable debugging messages of a given kind.  @var{kind} can
be one of @samp{common}, @samp{kernel}, @samp{filter}, @samp{timeout},
@samp{interface}, @samp{route}, @samp{authentication} or @samp{all}. Note that if you have
compiled with the NO_DEBUG flag, then these commands aren't available.
@end deffn

